
Preface
With a short word, the proper place of dogmatics can be brought to light. Not only the average believer, but also the dogmatician, finds their correct place within the larger Christian community. Only by being properly situated among all the saints can he comprehend the breadth and length and depth and height together as all confess the love of Christ, which surpasses knowledge.  From the first, in and through their community, he learns the dogma in which the Christian faith expresses itself.  Moreover, in this community of saints there is a strengthening power and an excellent consolation. Unfortunately, dogmatics is not generally held in honor in our time, and the dogmatician can feel abandoned and isolated. But thankful we are then, to be able to call upon our ancestors as allies. For these reasons, more attention has been paid to patristic and scholastic theology than to Protestant dogmatists. Men like Irenaeus, Augustine, Thomas, do not belong exclusively to Rome.  They are fathers and Doctors of the church, to whom the whole Christian family is indebted. Furthermore, Roman theology has not been forgotten after the Reformation. There is often too little public acknowledgment among the Protestants, regarding both what they share with Rome and with what separates them. The revival of Roman theology under the auspices of [IV] Thomas makes it doubly necessary for the Protestant Christian to give deliberate and clear account of his relationship to Rome.
This dogmatic work is closest to the kind of Christian religion and theology which developed in the sixteenth century through the Reformation, specifically in Switzerland; which was not the only source for truth, but this writer is convinced that it is the purest expression of it. Nowhere has the Christian confession come into its own religious, ethical and theological character, so deep and wide, spacious and free, and as universal, as it has in the Reformed churches. The main task of the dogmatician is not to report on the history of dogmatic content, but to declare what the content ought to be. Dogma is rooted in the past but works for the future. It is unfortunate that this reformation of religion and theology, like that of church and science, occurred so quickly: The parallel developments, not only in this country but also in England, Scotland, and America, have led to theological dead ends and deformation. In that regard, the freshness of the older theology is to be preferred. However, to praise the old simply because it is old is neither Reformed nor Christian. So rather than be constrained by the history of what has come before, it is the dogmatician’s right to distinguish between the grain and chaff in Reformed theology. 
This is why, in the end, a work of dogmatics is always a product of its times, and it is an impossible task to separate it from the day in which it is written, but this is not adequate for God, who speaks timeless truths no less loudly and earnestly to us in this century as in previous generations. For this treatment, including all the various directions that interact with each other in the theological field, the author has sought a middle ground; when a deviation was necessary, an account for it has been provided.  Even then, this treatment seeks to appreciate the good where it has been found. On this basis, this dogmatic work tries to be a handbook for those who devote themselves to the practice. Even where dogmatics cannot generate a consensus, it may profitably generate a study. In view of this, the issues and the various solutions which have been tested have been proposed as objectively as possible. Literature was given up to such an extent that one would soon be able to examine the references and work to the conclusion.
This first part discusses the introduction and the principia. The second part deals with the dogmatic content. This will probably be published in two parts, the second part to follow as soon as possible. An extensive index will accompany the work.
H. Bavinck
Kampen, 1895.


